# Credit-Card-Fraud-Detection
This project is about building building a binary classification model to clasiify the fraud transaction. The project learns various features of each transactions to understand the nature of each. 
I have used various visualization to understand the patterns and recoginize the behaviour of each transaction.
The dataset used in this project is hosted from Kaggle which includes credit card transactions made in September 2013 by European cardholders. The data set contains 284,807 transcation records over a period of two days of which 492(0.17%) is fraudulent, which also states that the classification slass is highly imbalanced. The dataset includes 30 different features, all are numericals and V1.....V18 are the variables after performing PCA analysis on the actual variables. For confidentionality, the bacckground information has been kept hidden. The Time feature is the time elapsed between two transaction and the Amount feature is the amount involved in the transaction. Class 1 is fraud transaction and class 0 is the non-fraud transaction.
I have implemented logistic regression, Support Vector Classification and Random Forest classifier to classify the fraud transcation. 
For Logistic Regressiona nd SVC: I have used SGDClassifier for multiple linear classifier with GD training, which makes learning much faster on large datasets. This model is implemented by using machine learning pipeline that includes StandardScaler for data standardization. This grid searches uses 5 fold cross validation with stratified folds. I have chosen loss parameter as log for logistic regression and hinge for SVC. for performance measurement i have used matthews_corrcoef (the Matthews correlation coefficient, MCC) as our scoring metric. As per MMC SVC is performing better on the dataset.

Random Forest: Random Forest classifier gave me more accurate result than SVC and logistic regression. Eventhough the random forest classifer took longer time to train teh model but its MMC coeffecient is more than logistic regeression and SVC. 

So, i have chosen Random forest as my final algorithm to learn the transaction record and classify it as either fraud or non-fraud. I also calculated mutual information values to identify the variables most correlated with fraud. On a test set consisting of 20% of the original data, the predictions from the random forest model had an F1 score of 0.869 and a Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC) of 0.869. I also trained logistic regression and linear support vector classifier models, but these models underperformed the random forest. To improve a particular model, I optimized hyperparameters via a grid search with 5-fold cross-validation.
